8-Sep-26

> Session manager

allows you to securely connect to EC2 instances without using SSH, Password less authentication.

Track & share all the activities for user

No need to manage pem keys, No need for a Jump/Bastion Server

Make sure user should have this feature in IAM policy

logs can be stored in CloudWatch or S3 for auditing.

> Route 53

Route 53 is AWS's Domain Name System (DNS) service. It translates a domain name (like www.amazon.com) into an IP address that computers use to communicate.

When a user enters: www.lalit.com then Route 53 converts it to:44.212.10.20 and sends the user to the correct server.

1. Domain Registration You can purchase and manage domain names such as: lalit.com

2. DNS Routing route the traffic

3. Health Checks Route 53 can continuously monitor an application and automatically redirect traffic if a server becomes unhealthy

it uses load balancer which distribute the traffic across all the server equally

IMP Routing Policies, DNS records type

CloudTrail "Who changed my system?", focuses on events

CloudWatch "How is my system performing?", focus on matrix events

ANS CloudTrail

-is a monitoring and auditing service that records API calls and user activities in an AWS account, helping organizations with security, compliance, Easy It records and monitors API calls and user activities in your AWS account. It helps you track who did what, when, and from where in your AWS

Tivities governance, and troubleshooting

environment. By default, CloudTrail provides 90 days of Event History. For long-term storage, logs can be sent to an S3 bucket.

Further connects to cloud watch for monitoring

Amazon CloudWatch

is an Als monitoring service that collects and tracks metrics, logs, and events from AWS resources and applications. Eg-

Suppose you have an EC2 instance running a website. So it monitor CPU Utilization, Network Traffic, Application Logs, RAM storage If CPU usage

reaches 90%, CloudWatch can automatically send an alert or trigger an action. Metric numerical data points about resource performance. CPU Utilization = 85%

Logs contain detailed information about what happened in the system. why CPU increase/Which application caused high CPU: total 500 requests, CPU
